#summary Introduce how to install this program along with its external dependencies
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

This is the documentation of TREX codename barreleye. This version is the first TREX version that do not rely on Europa for its core functionalities as a result one can use TREX with which ever planner he wants - as long as this one can hanlde properly the goal representation expected by TREX.

This page describes what are this framework dependencies and how to install it.

=  External dependencies =

The number of third party dependency has been kept relatively small still we use few libraries and programs  : 
 * [http://www.cmake.org/ *cmake*] newly added which -- among other things -- allows to integrate trex2 in multiple IDEs such as Eclipse, Xcode, ...
 * [http://www.boost.org *boost libraries*] This library is widely used for basic utilities and compatibilty with the TR1 C++0x standard. We use some of the recent addition to the library such as boost graph and flyweight. Therefor we recommend to take a recent version (at least 1.38.0 -- we tested it with both v 1.40.0 and the latest v 1.46.1) 
 * [http://rapidxml.sourceforge.net/ *rapidxml*] This is used for configuration parsing. TREX used to rely on TinyXML version embedded in Europa but keeping this would have been annoying as this version was part of Europa and keeping the ability to connect to Europa while using a version of TinyXML which is not necessarily the Europa one would have been tricky. On top of that rapidxml is really lightweight (only templates defined in C++ headers) and very fast (performance close to strlen). The version used -- and provided -- for this package is 1.13.

It is also recommended to use gcc version 4.1.x or above for compiling the overall project

Others utilies are of interrest but not necessary to use TREX:
  * [http://www.doxygen.org/ *doxygen*]  This utility is needed only if you want to generate this documentation.
  * [http://www.graphviz.org/ *graphviz*] Recommended for documentation but it may also be used for plan visualization by showing tokens and their relations as a graph.

For europa plug-in :
  * [http://code.google.com/p/europa-pso/ *europa-pso*] version 2.4 or above.
               this is the core libaray used for planning on the EuropaReactor
	       Simply install the binary distribution provided for your platform. 
	       The version we use is europa 2.5 (binary package)

= Installing TREX =

== Setting up your environment ==

For compilation the only varaible really required in EUROPA_HOME if you want to use the europa plug-in.
For example :
{{{
> export EUROPA_HOME=${HOME}/europa
}}}
The expected structure from cmake is the following :
{{{
  $EUROPA_HOME
    + lib        # europa libraries (we use the _o versions)
    + include    # PS*.hh headers
      + PLASMA   # plasma headers
}}}
This should be the case if you installed the binary package of europa

== Compiling and generating documentation ==

More details can be found on [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/help/runningcmake.html cmake official documentation]. But here's a quick tutorial to use make as the end compilation tool :

Create your working directory :
{{{
> mkdir trex2.build
> cd trex2.build
}}}

run cmake by passing the location of the source tree as argument (we'll assume 
that trex2.build is ate the same level as trex2-agent source directory)
{{{
> cmake ../trex2-agent/
}}}
If no error occured, you can just run make as usual
{{{
> make
}}}
=== Note ===
     Right now cmake compiles everything by default. This is a first integration 
     and we will make sure in the future that the behavior is closer to what we 
     have with jam where plug-ins are only compiled on demand.

You can generate the documentation from doxygen using :
{{{
> make doc
}}}

And finally install the binaries (by default under /usr/local) using 
{{{
make install
}}}
 
== running TREX ==

The core library provide two simples executables :
  * *amc* execute the agent in batch mode 
  * *sim* execute the agent in small interactive mode with a simulated clock to help debugging a mission

TREX use 2 environment variables :
 * TREX_LOG_DIR : indicates in which directory the logs should be put
 * TREX_PATH : indicates where to look for files that are not in the current path

You can easily set them up with default values by sourcing the file
{{{
> source /usr/local/shared/trex/trex_init.bash
}}} 
----
=== Note ===
In version 0.1.4 there's a bug on trex_init.bash. It has been corrected in svn but if you download the source package just replace any mention of TREX_HOME by TREX_SHARED in trex_init.bash.in 
----
When your environment is set up you can then run the commands.
all of them takes a mission file as argument and one `sample` mission is given under `cfg/` to run it just type :
{{{
amc sample 
}}}
or
{{{
sim  sample
}}}

Further details on this should be provided the documentation generated through `make doc` compilation command and will be included in the future on this wiki

 